One interview with Mrs. Avis Williams of Edmonton.
You were asking about the Welsh language. Now this is very interesting, Glennis, because it goes back to the very beginning of what I said about the Welsh church here.
This has been a very integral part of the keeping of the Welsh culture of the language, particularly possibly for my sister's generation and mine.
It was completely Welsh service, of course, and they carried out the format of the service much as they do in the Welsh chapels in Wales.
Yes.
And we simply had to go in front during the service, as many of the children did, to recite Welsh verses or verses of hymns, biblical verses I was referring to first of all.
And that, I think, is where we got our real grounding of the pronunciation and, well, and the understanding of it.
And though my parents were as Welsh as anyone who ever spoke Welsh, they were very much Welsh.
My father came out of Wales. My father was Mr. T. Morris Hughes from Mould in Flintshire, and our mother was from Rytton.
And they spoke every word of Welsh in the house, but somehow didn't carry on the conversation with Stella and myself.
And we often mentioned it to them in later years. Mama used to say, well, you had your grounding in the Welsh verses,
and the way you memorized them.
And it's really rather difficult to understand why they didn't keep it up.
We understand practically every word.
And then, of course, I was very fortunate to marry Len, who is from Anglesey, from Llanfodog, Anglesey.
And to this day, I tease him that he thinks in Welsh and speaks in English.
And though we don't converse, he has never spoken English.
He never lost his Welsh.
As a matter of fact, 16 years ago, we went back to Wales, and he spoke as fluent Welsh as he did.
At that time, he'd been out here 35 years and simply thrilled everybody.
So, of course, he kept my Welsh up.
I used to do a little bit of singing, and of course he did too.
And our son, Glyn, learned his Welsh hymn, which he sang.
As guest soloist in San Francisco National Gamamba there, through coaching by his father, Len, of course.
So we have been very fortunate in being able to keep the, to a certain extent, the understanding.
But I'm not very fluent in the actual conversational Welsh.
Would you like to say just a few words in Welsh to finish?
Well, I rather stunned my listeners occasionally.
As a matter of fact, not too long ago, I was describing Anglesey and mentioning about the littlest town there with the largest name.
Llanfair pul Gwyngill, gogeroch wyr yn drobul Llandysillog o Goch.
And I often play the record of the Welsh language.
I play the Roos male voice choir.
And I'm always tempted, which I practically always do, tell them that they're, it's all right to say they're from Roos.
But for those who know better, they come from Roos Llanfair wyr gog.
And believe it or not, I found that really more of a problem than Llanfair pul Gwyngill.
But, oh, I don't know.
I think it's a little bit of a mystery.
I think possibly I'll carry on this program.
It is unique.
As far as I know, I don't think there is another Welsh program in North America.
I have never heard of any in the States.
And I'm quite sure there isn't another one in Canada.
If there is, I would most certainly like to hear of it.
But CKUA is rather a unique station.
It is non-commercial and just is centered around ethnic groups and has been a great help to the Welsh community of Edmonton.